Distributed Message Queue
    https://bytebytego.com/courses/system-design-interview/distributed-message-queue

      Strictly speaking, Apache Kafka and Pulsar are not message queues as they are event streaming platforms. However, there is a convergence of features that starts to blur the distinction between message queues (RocketMQ, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, ZeroMQ, etc.) and event streaming platforms (Kafka, Pulsar). 

      Messaging models
        The most popular messaging models are point-to-point and publish-subscribe. Our distributed message queue supports both models. The publish-subscribe model is implemented by topics, and the point-to-point model can be simulated by the concept of the consumer group

        Point-to-point
          This model is commonly found in traditional message queues. In a point-to-point model, a message is sent to a queue and consumed by one and only one consumer.

        Publish-subscribe
          First, let’s introduce a new concept, the topic. Topics are the categories used to organize messages. Each topic has a name that is unique across the entire message queue service. Messages are sent to and read from a specific topic.

          In the publish-subscribe model, a message is sent to a topic and received by the consumers subscribing to this topic.

        Data storage
        Option 1: Database
          The first option is to use a database.
          Relational database: create a topic table and write messages to the table as rows.
          NoSQL database: create a collection as a topic and write messages as documents.

        Option 2: Write-ahead log (WAL)
          The second option is write-ahead log (WAL). WAL is just a plain file where new entries are appended to an append-only log. WAL is used in many systems, such as the redo log in MySQL and the WAL in ZooKeeper.

        A note on disk performance

          To meet the high data retention requirement, our design relies heavily on disk drives to hold a large amount of data. There is a common misconception that rotational disks are slow, but this is really only the case for random access. For our workload, as long as we design our on-disk data structure to take advantage of the sequential access pattern, the modern disk drives in a RAID configuration (i.e., with disks striped together for higher performance) could comfortably achieve several hundred MB/sec of read and write speed. This is more than enough for our needs, and the cost structure is favorable.

        Batching
          Batching is pervasive in this design. 
          There is a tradeoff between throughput and latency. If the system is deployed as a traditional message queue where latency might be more important, the system could be tuned to use a smaller batch size.

        Producer flow
          This is very important since it will answer the question why Kafka can scale better.
          Basically, zookeeper takes care of which broker to assign 

        Consumer flow
          most message queues choose the pull model instead of push  

        TODO : 
        Study more about Apache Zookeeper
        Working of Apacke Kafka  
